docs: updated and added OIDC credential forwarding  COPS-264, COPS-284, COPS-319 (#2692)
neo4j/docs-operations: modules/ROOT/pages/database-administration/aliases/manage-aliases-standard-databases.adoc

A database alias can target a remote database by providing a URL and the credentials of a user on the remote Neo4j DBMS.
See xref:database-administration/aliases/remote-database-alias-configuration.adoc[] for the necessary configurations.

Since remote database aliases target databases that are not in this DBMS, they do not fetch the default Cypher version from their target like the local database aliases.
Instead, they are assigned the version given by xref:configuration/configuration-settings.adoc#config_db.query.default_language[`db.query.default_language`], which is set in the `neo4j.conf` file.
Alternatively, you can specify the version in the `CREATE ALIAS` or `ALTER ALIAS` commands.
See xref:database-administration/aliases/manage-aliases-standard-databases.adoc#set-default-language-for-remote-database-aliases[] and xref:database-administration/aliases/manage-aliases-standard-databases.adoc#alter-default-language-remote-database-alias[] for more information.

When creating a remote database alias, the credentials used to target to the remote DBMS need to be specified. This can be done by providing the credentials of a native user, or

> by forwarding the OIDC credentials of the user logged in to the local DBMS.

Reviewer: We probably need to have one of these version tags somewhere indicating that CREDENTIAL FORWARDING is new.
<img width="195" height="49" alt="Bildschirmfoto 2025-10-31 um 09 20 23" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/e22c16cf-c823-40f2-b6f0-23bf583ba7f6" />

I believe we would want that to show the version in which we set `internal.cypher.enable_oidc_credential_forwarding` to default to true. Before we set that flag to true I think we would want the SHOW updates to be done and also have done our manual testing.

Question for the docs reviewer: Do we ever document features that aren't released yet, e.g. "This feature is in beta and you need to set config x.y.z=true to access it"

.Query
[source, cypher]
----
SHOW ALIAS `remote-northwind-stored-credentials`
FOR DATABASE
----

.Result
[role="queryresult"]
----
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| name                                  | composite | database               | location | url                       | user    |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| "remote-northwind-stored-credentilas" | NULL      | "northwind-graph-2020" | "remote" | "neo4j+s://location:7687" | "alice" |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
----

> The `OIDC CREDENTIAL FORWARDING` clause is used to configure a remote database alias to use the logged-in user's OIDC credentials to authenticate to the remote DBMS.

Author: I'v added a note under the _Connect to remote database aliases_ section

.Query
[source, cypher]
----
SHOW ALIAS `remote-northwind-stored-credentials`
FOR DATABASE
----

.Result
[role="queryresult"]
----
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| name                                  | composite | database               | location | url                       | credentials                 | user    |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| "remote-northwind-stored-credentilas" | NULL      | "northwind-graph-2020" | "remote" | "neo4j+s://location:7687" | "STORED NATIVE CREDENTIALS" | "alice" |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
----

The `OIDC CREDENTIAL FORWARDING` clause is used to configure a remote database alias to use the logged-in user's OIDC credentials to authenticate to the remote DBMS.

> In order to use this method to authenticate, the local DBMS and remote DBMS needs to have SSO authentication and authorization through identity providers implementing the OIDC standard configured, see the xref:authentication-authorization/sso-integration.adoc[SSO integration] on how to configure OIDC identity providers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To use this method for authentication, the local DBMS and remote DBMS must have SSO authentication and authorization through identity providers that implement the OIDC standard configured.
See xref:authentication-authorization/sso-integration.adoc[SSO integration] for details on how to configure OIDC identity providers.
```

.Query
[source, cypher]
----
CREATE ALIAS `remote-northwind-oidc-credential-forwarding` FOR DATABASE `northwind-graph-2020`
AT "neo4j+s://location:7687"
OIDC CREDENTIAL FORWARDING
----

> Since the alias use the credentials of the logged-in user when targeting the remote DBMS, there are no stored credentials and user will be `NULL`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since the alias uses the credentials of the logged-in user when targeting the remote DBMS, there are no stored credentials, and the user will be `NULL`.
```

In this case, by not repeating the driver setting `connection_pool_max_size`, the value will be deleted and fall back to the default value.
====

[role=label--new-2025.10]
=== Alter a remote database alias credential type

Changing the type of credentials used by a remote database alias, `STORED NATIVE CREDENTIALS` or `OIDC CREDENTIAL FORWARDING`, by using the `ALTER ALIAS` command is currently not supported.
To change the type of credentials, the remote database alias needs to be dropped and replaced with a new one.

[IMPORTANT]
====

> Any associated privileges, driver settings and other properties will be lost when dropping the alias and need to be respecified for the new one. See xref:authentication-authorization/database-administration.adoc[Database privileges] on how to manage access to the remote database alias and other privileges.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Any associated privileges, driver settings, and other properties will be lost when dropping the alias and need to be respecified for the new one.
See xref:authentication-authorization/database-administration.adoc[Database privileges] on how to manage access to the remote database alias and other privileges.
```
